[MUSIC]
We'll talk in this lecture
about how to capture images and
how to send them over the network.
So, sending an image over the network,
so why would we want to do this?
There are a lot of reasons
why you want to do it.
If you want to view a Raspberry Pi's
camera from a remote site.
Home security system's an example.
Maybe you make a home security system with
your Raspberry Pi where it has a motion
sensor and
when it detect motion in your house,
it snaps a picture to see who's
moving around in your house, right?
And in that case, you might want it
to send the picture to your phone,
to where you are, sends you an email and
it sends an attachment.
Something like that.
So, there are a lot of reasons why you
might want to have the Raspberry Pi take
a picture and then send it
somewhere else over the network.
So, what you want to do
is capture an image and
we've already seen how to capture
an image in the last lecture.
But then you want to send it
on some network connection.
So we have to do a little
bit to get that to happen.
Here's a simple code that would do that.
So this is socket code and we've already
looked at socket code in previous modules.
So first you make a socket, okay.
Then you connect on that socket
to some server, some address,
wherever you want to connect to.
Port 8000, that's arbitrary in my mind.
But you give it an IP address or a domain
name at a port and you make a connection.
Now, then what we do here is a little bit
different than what we did before when we
did socket programming.
We call this mysocket.makefile, okay.
Now what does is it makes
a file object inside
a local directory and notice that
the arguments to it are w and b right?
So, those are telling you the permissions
so you can write to this file.
And bytes,
you can write bytes to the file.
So, it's creating a file so this
connection, conn, is going to be a file.
Now, why is it doing that?
The reason why it's doing this
because if you look at the next line,
camera.capture, we've actually
used this in the last lecture,
camera.capture is first argument is
a file that you want to save to.
Right?
But, a regular socket is not a file.
So you need a file-like object
that is connected to the socket.
Okay?
So that's what you're doing there.
You may say, make file
mysocket.makefile is making this file.
But anything you write to that file is
actually going to be written out to
the socket, okay?
So, that's what we're doing.
So we make this file, this conn.
And then we say camera capture.
And we pass as the first
argument this conn,
which to the camera.capture
function looks like a file.
But when you write to that file it
actually sends it out in a socket.
So, and
that's pretty straightforward, right?
Now we have now sent
this out on the network.
In this case I gave camera.capture
the extra argument jpeg to tell it I
want to send it as a jpeg,
but you can change that.
Okay, so
another thing you might want to do,
that they give you a facility to do in
the library is time-lapse photography.
So by this I mean you take
a picture then you wait,
ten minutes you take another picture, you
wait ten minutes you take another picture.
This is good for
if you want to see something changing
that changes very slowly over time.
You can put big time
lapses between the images.
And then you get a sequence of images of
stills that are separated by big chunks
of time and if you run them together
you can see weeks in minutes.
You can have weeks of images,
roll them to display them in a minute and
see things change more quickly.
So this is time lapse photography and
they give you a method for that.
The method's called
camera.capture_continuous.
So it takes photos over time.
So, what it does is it basically, yeah,
does it what it is,
it's like an infinite loop of photos.
Now, it takes one argument, a file name.
And this file name, note that since
you're taking many photos over time,
one file name is not actually sufficient,
right?
You can't just give it one file
name otherwise it'll overwrite.
You don't want it to overwrite
the old file with the new file.
So what you want is for every one of these
images to be under a different file name.
So what you do is you give it
an argument which is really
the prefix of the file name.
Or not the prefix, but some part of
the fie name that remains constant.
It doesn't have to be a prefix,
although that is common.
But, you add to that one of
two pieces of information.
You could add both axis if you wanted to.
You can counter and or a time stamp.
So, inside this argument that you pass to
capture continuous, you have some string,
and inside the argument you can
put in curly bracket counter or
you can put curly bracket timestamp.
And wherever it sees
curly bracket counter,
it will substitute that with a counter
with a count with an integer,
which is the number of
the picture that it is on.
So the first time it'll
say it'll be a one.
Next time, next picture, it will be a two.
Next picture it will be a three,
and so on.
So, by sticking  in
there in the string somewhere
you always have a different name for
every image in your time lapse.
Instead of using a counter,
you can also use timestamp, .
And  instead
of putting a counter,
it just puts a time in there in time code.
It puts a time stamp in there which
also make sure that every file name is
a different name because it
changes based on the time stamp.
And whether you put  or
in there and
where you put them is up to you.
So, for instance, let's say as
the argument to capture_continuous,
my argument is picture.jpg.
That produces picture1.jpg the first time,
picture2.jpg the second time,
picture3, picture4.
Every time it substitutes that curly
bracket counter with an integer,
which is the number of
the picture that I'm on.
So that's typically how you would use it.
You could do the same thing
with timestamp or whatever.
So I'll just look more at this continuous
capture, and how you might use it.
So capture continuous is iterable, okay?
It's an iterable sequence.
So what that means is you can
iterate through it with a for.
So what you can do, for
instance here in this loop.
So we say first we make a camera,
which is an instantiation of pi camera,
an object of pi camera class.
Then, for each file name in
camera.capture_continuous,
we say time.sleep (300).
So what this will do is,
every pass through the loop,
that file name sees the for
file name that word file name, variable
file name will be mapped to one image,
to one image file from
camera.capture capture continuous.
So for instance first pass through there,
camera.capture_continuous is going to
create a picture image 1.jpg, right?
because it's a counter.
And file name will be that file,
image1.jpg on the first pass.
On the next pass of that loop,
camera.capture_continuous will
create image2.jpg.
And file name will be equal to image2.jpg.
And so on.
Now, notice that in this file loop,
I stuck in the loop this time.sleep300.
So it's 300 seconds,
that's 5 minutes, okay.
It's an infaloop.
This is actually an infaloop
as I've written it.
Of course, we could put a break in there,
if somebody types in something,
break out of the loop.
We haven't done that, but there's
a five minute delay between images.
So camera.capture_continuous, the neck,
every time it's called, every time
it's invoked, it's the top of the loop,
it creates, it takes another image.
And I've put to sleep in
between iterations of 300 so
it waits five minutes between iterations.
So that's a common way to
use continuous capture to do
time-lapse photography, thank you.
[MUSIC]